Welcome to this this talk. I'm extremely
confused. Uh I think maybe more confused
than I've ever been in my entire life.
Probably definitely more confused than
I've ever been in my entire life. Uh and
I want to talk about that because I
think I don't know when you're confused.
That's the start of something
interesting. If you're trained as a
scientist, that's like the thing you
want to pay most attention to is that
moment where you're confused like, "Oh,
this is interesting. I don't know what's
about to happen." I've been in
technology for like my whole life and I
feel like I've always had this advantage
where it's like, oh, I understand what's
happening. I actually kind of think I
know what's going to happen over the
next five or 10 years and I've used that
to my advantage. Like I've planned my
career around it. I've founded companies
around it. Uh, you know, I've kind of
gotten ahead of uh the trend and gotten
involved at the right time in a lot of
different places. And that's like really
been great for me. I no longer feel that
way though. Like I can't see five years
into the future. I can see like three
weeks or less. Uh, and I really just
don't know what's going to happen. So, I
I want to have a series of questions
that hopefully help
me figure out what's going on. Uh, maybe
it'll help you all figure out what's
going on. Uh, maybe not. Uh, not all
questions are useful. Uh, but I think
asking good questions is extremely
important to running a startup, running
a research team, running your life,
whatever you're doing. I think we all
need to like stop sometimes and just ask
questions. But I think the moment in
time that we're going through right now
with AI is like extremely challenging
and and fast. And if there was ever a
time to stop and ask questions, it's
probably right now. Uh all these are my
own obviously. I think we're like
required to say that. Um my day job is
running a alignment research team at
Enthropic. Um I've also been through YC.
I've done multiple startups in my life.
So maybe my perspective on like AI plus
startups is useful for all if you're
thinking about um startup life or AI
life. Okay. Uh that's enough of a
preamble. Uh let's jump in. This is sort
of like the main question that I want to
ask. Everything's changing. How should
that impact everything about my life?
Honestly, like should you even start a
startup like is a big question. But
let's assume that you're starting a
startup or you're running a startup
already. How should it impact your
strategy? How should it impact your
product? how should it impact how you're
building your team? Like these are big
open questions. Uh and I think AI is
probably going to change how you answer
them today and probably differently
tomorrow. And there's like this kind of
paradox that I've seen throughout my
career running startups and talking to
startup founders. Everyone always tells
you focus is everything. Like that's the
advantage that startups have. Focus,
focus, focus. Big companies can't focus.
That's why you can out compete them and
run circles around them. But despite the
fact that focus is everything, the other
truth of running a startup is you have
to focus on everything, right? Like it's
your job to think about hiring and
fundraising and product and strategy and
go to market and just like everything,
right? Um and then all of a sudden in
the middle of like a product launch,
someone on your team quits, someone else
threatens to quit and it's just like
it's madness and it's happening all the
time. This is just an extreme paradox
but I think it it kind of uh makes
founders suitable to this biggest
question that we're all facing as a
society which is what's going to happen
with AI and what should we be doing
because founders are the people that
have to just answer every single
question always. So I think it's it's a
good positioning. There's been sort of
like common quote unquote common just
like in the last six months um best
practices like what do you think about
AI for your your product and people say
like oh you should like think about what
happens over the next six months. think
about what the next foundation models
are going to be able to do and make sure
you're planning your product
anticipating what those capabilities are
going to do. Don't like plan for the
capabilities of today. I think it's like
extremely valid advice. You should
definitely take it seriously. Uh but I
want to like up the ante a little bit
and say actually you should be planning
two years in advance. Uh because it's
extremely likely that we will have AGI
in the next few years. Maybe it's not
two, maybe it's three, right? But I
think you should be planning your
company uh and your strategy around this
fact, right? And like there's extreme
uncertainty, right? So don't like take
it too seriously. Don't have like
literally a two-year plan. But if you're
not thinking a little bit about how this
is going to change everything from
hiring to marketing to go to market,
etc. I don't think you're doing your job
as a founder. Okay. So that's really the
the the theme here today is I want to
like go through a series of questions
and take this lens of AGI arriving and
also just take the lens of like what's
changing near-term in AI over the next 6
months. I think there's been a lot of
conversations around like, oh, actually
the impact of AI is going to be slower
than we think. And the reason is that
big companies suck and they have to like
they take a lot of time to buy things,
right? They they don't realize the trend
and then, you know, the enterprise sales
cycle is really slow. So all the Fortune
500 companies are just going to take
years and years to like digest all the
SAS products that you all might want to
be building. And I think that's actually
extremely nearsighted because what's
going to happen I think open question is
the buy side the enterprises they're
going to get armed with AGI or strong
agents over the next couple years as
well right and that's not just via the
SAS products that they might be building
it'll just be natively inside like their
teams are going to be using the next
versions of LLM to make buying decisions
right and to figure out how to
accelerate their adoption cycle the
force of AI is not just on this like
product revolution that the startups are
building. It's also on the buy side,
right? And I think this is like an
interesting weird thing about AI is that
it's going to rise, you know, the water
rises and all ships rise with it. It's
not just the startups. The incumbents
benefit from AI, too. And I think we're
seeing that in other places, too, where
large enterprises sometimes aren't even
going out and buying software from from
SAS providers anymore. They're like, I
can just like throw two people at cloud
code and they'll build it and it'll be
dedicated to the the capabilities that I
need for my organization. So buy side is
going to be evolving really quickly and
I think it's an open question what what
does that mean right I think another
angle on this is you know when you have
AI powered outbound sales we think about
what that is going to do to the
marketplace but there's going to be this
in this buy side too of like receiving
those sale calls from AIS and trying to
parse what's going on so the dynamics
aren't really clear how it's going to
play out this is a kind of related
question like is software going to fully
commoditize is it even going to make
sense to run a SAS provider in like two
years or three years Or is it like going
to be the case that enterprises really
do just build all their software
in-house because it's just one, you
know, one prompt to cloud code, the
nextg version of cloud code, right? And
actually you just need in-house product
managers and they're going to do
everything for you. Like that's one real
outcome that could happen to consumer
side too. Like maybe consumers
eventually are just like not downloading
apps anymore. They're just building apps
on demand for themselves. They don't
even think about it that way. Like they
don't even think about them as apps
anymore. It's just, yeah, I want my
phone to do something for me. I ask it
and yeah, it made an app for me. Sure.
um what's the point of downloading an
app at this point? So that's one
outcome, but I think another outcome
actually is the opposite. It's like
maybe all of this automation on on
generating code makes it easier to just
raise the quality bar extremely high.
And sure, you can make like the
equivalent of today's apps very easily
just by prompting. But can you make an
exceptional app tomorrow uh the
equivalent of a great team that's
working with AI uh to raise the bar? I
don't actually know the answer to this
question, but I think it might be
different depending on the vertical. Um,
and you should be thinking about this
for your product. I think it's an
interesting question too, like if you
can write software on demand, do you
even make apps anymore or is it is it
really on demand, right? Like why like
we're taking cloud code and and things
like it to ahead of time figure out what
a user needs and then build as much
software as we need to support all those
use cases. But if you can do code on
demand, why not do it on demand? you
know, on the fly, here's this user,
they're doing something in your app
potentially, and the app realizes that
the app can't support what they want and
on demand, you generate code for that
user. I think this is a really
interesting pattern if you can make it
work. Um, but it raises all sorts of
issues around like trust, right? It's
one thing to do generative UI where
maybe you're changing the shape of the
interface for the user, but like real
new behaviors would require going down
to the database level, right? Or the
back end. And if you want your AI to be
able to do that on demand, you better
trust that that AI can do its job,
right? And obviously right now AIS are
not trustable enough to make that
happen. So I think trust is going to be
a big theme over how these different
questions play out. Similar question
like what should UI look like? You know,
I think people talk about generative UI
hasn't really happened yet, but I'm like
bullish to see when it does happen. Is a
ondemand UI the right interface or is
there something even more different that
we haven't thought about? Um, I think
about this specifically in the context
of multimodality, weaving together
auditory and images and video and text
and what's the right input back from the
user. You know, as a user, sometimes I
want to speak, sometimes I want to use
touch interfaces. It's really contextual
depending on whether I'm in a crowded
area, etc. Right? I think you want to
meet the user where they are. Like
what's the easiest thing? What's the
easiest way for them to inter interface
with your product right now? That's the
question you should be thinking about.
Uh, and I think all this ties into this
big question they have, which is like we
have all these products today that have
great distribution and people realize
that we need to insert AI into it. All
the major players are doing this, right?
Slapping like a chatbot on, slapping on
some like agentic behavior, whatever,
right? They're like retrofitting their
products to try to enable something with
AI, right? But that's like trying to
like sprinkle pixie dust on something.
It's natural to think it's better to
build it a new product from the ground
up that's AI native. Like that's that's
like my startup mentality. like new
technology revolution, you're going to
need to start from scratch if you want
to build this, right? Uh but that might
not be true. It actually might be the
case that retrofitting existing products
with the benefit of distribution wins.
And I think again it might not it might
not be universal. This might be vertical
by vertical. But I think this is a
really important question that you
should be asking yourself and not like
don't just have an opinion like figure
out the causal mechanisms that allow you
to validate your hypothesis because I
think these types of questions will make
or break different products. Okay, so
that's a lot about like products uh
product strategy, but I think every part
of a a startup is like extremely
important. Uh the most important thing
is your culture. It's your team. Will
team sizes get even smaller? I think
like that's like the default that people
are assuming. But I think similar to
products where like you can retrofit or
you can build from scratch. I think
there's going to be this question which
is are like AI native teams that were
built from the scratch to be AI native.
Are they gonna have some advantage over
large companies that are like downsizing
and finding ways to make themselves more
efficient with with AI? Right? Are there
like team patterns where you you kind of
like just operate differently if you
started from an AI native place? And
actually that might be different every
six, 12 or 18 months, right? Because the
capabilities of AI are changing. So like
an AI native company today might be
different than what an AI native company
to tomorrow looks like in 12 months. You
might be outdated if you're not like
thinking about how to retrofit yourself.
Like I said, I think trust is going to
be extremely important, right? So, like
how does the security model change? We
like I mentioned this already in in the
case of on demand code where you want
your LLM to be able to go all the way
back down to the database layer and do
something on demand for that customer,
for that consumer. But you can't do that
if you can't trust the controls that you
have in place and if you can't trust the
capabilities of the model to do the
right thing, right? I think about this
also in the context of like assistance
like the whole point of an assistant is
to be useful to the to the consumer to
that user. Uh, but we have all these
walled gardens and you're starting to
see like maybe you need different agents
in different settings, right? But that's
not what you want as a user. You want
one agent for all of your things, right?
So me, I want my personal agent and my
professional agent at work to be able to
work together, right? But that raises
all sorts of concerns like there's stuff
that I do on my personal time uh or you
do on your personal time that maybe you
don't want your employer to know about,
right? Uh so how do you make sure that
the information is segregated while
still allowing those agents to
collaborate in the right way? Those are
all hard questions. Can you do it right?
Can you get to the same level of of
usefulness? Um or do you have to
compromise somehow on on some of these
uh security aspects? A a deeper question
about agents is, you know, we think
about alignment as can we trust the AI,
but the truth is even if you have a
perfectly aligned, you know, quote
unquote, like intent aligned model, it's
going to be used by a corporation or a
startup uh to build an agent for that
user. And then the question is, can you
trust the startup that's building the
agent, right? Uh is is this agent that
they've de developed for you actually
acting on your behalf? If this is like
an adbased company and you're using this
agent to search for like a, you know,
new brand of shoes or whatever, right?
Like is it going to be biased? Is it
going to be like pumping you towards one
direction? That's not what you want as
the user, right? But it might be what
you want as the corporation. So, and
then how do we start even asking these
questions, right? Then going back to the
previous slide around like personal
versus professional agents. I really
care if I'm using that agent. I really
care that it's operating on my behalf,
right? If it's like secretly operating
on behalf of my company and it's like
optimizing things in my personal life
that's better for the company than me,
that's like extremely scary. And I think
it gets more scary the more capable the
models get. So I think it's important to
start thinking about trust, right? Like
how do we how do we instill trust uh not
just in the models but in the agents and
in the companies that are building these
agents, right? And I I think ultimately
what that really comes down to is trust
in in you all or trust in the companies
that you're building, right? How can a
user trust this like company that's
building this this product? Especially,
you know, already today we have these
extremely small teams. Tomorrow the
teams might be even smaller. You might
have these like semi-automated teams
almost. How can you trust that team? You
might say, well, I don't know, like we
trust companies today. One of the core
reasons we trust companies today is
because they're composed of a diversity
of people. You can trust to some extent
that if there's reasonable culture at a
company that if the company decides, if
the CEO decides to do something bad,
that someone in the company is going to
raise their hand and say, "No, I don't
support this. I'm going to whistleblow.
I'm going to leak this. I'm going to
quit. I'm going to take a bunch of
people with me. I'm pissed. I hate
this." Right? And without the people
supporting the company, the company
doesn't have a product. Right? But in a
semi-automated world, that's no longer
true. And it could be the fact that a
single person could make a decision that
changes the entire impact of a product.
And there's no single person that might
be aware of that except themselves. It
gets extremely easy for bad actors to do
bad things. And if you've followed along
the history of Silicon Valley or the
history of humanity, the truth is a huge
majority of people are misaligned,
right? Especially when money is on the
line. Uh, so I think this is a this is a
really important question and the truth
is like we already think about this.
Like large enterprises for example
already distrust startups partially for
this reason. There's a lot of reasons
why large enterprises distrust startups.
One of them is they're worried they're
going to go out of business tomorrow,
right? But it's just a lot easier for a
small startup to do the wrong thing
compared to a big company, right? That's
part of what makes small startups um
successful sometimes. So I think this is
already like on the top of minds of
enterprises, but it'll increasingly be
on the top of minds of everyday people.
So that kind of leads me to this next
question which is well how do we instill
trust? Like what does a new set of
guardrails need to look like? If you
don't have all these human guardrails
inside of your company where you've you
know worked really hard to build great
culture and build it build it a
collection of people who care about
doing the right thing. If that's not the
thing that makes a company ethical
anymore, how else can we make sure that
there are guard rails? Like what does
that look like? A lot of people have
been throwing around ideas on this.
There's like this notion of um AI
powered auditing like what should an
audit look like uh in an AGR world
there's this huge advantage that AI has
over humans uh when it comes to bringing
comfort to an audit which is that they
can be less biased and they can also
have no memory if you ag for an example
right if you agree as a company to let
an AI audit you uh and you can say hey
if you don't find any malfeasants if if
after your audit you've you decided that
we didn't do anything wrong as we as we
claimed maybe have like a public uh
mission statement that like the AI is
like confirming uh then the AI deletes
itself right all of its notes etc get
deleted and that's a big advantage over
having human auditors where they could
take information with them right there's
a lot of there's already auditing
happening today right for legal reasons
for financial reasons you know where you
want to be like certified organic or
whatever it is right um but you have to
let people come into your company and
audit you and there's danger there right
they might take with them like IP uh or
they might find sensitive things and
then like you know which were unrelated
to the thing you wanted to get audited
and all these bad things can happen,
right? So there there's like this
potential I think for AI to give us a
much stronger auditing system. Um that
can be part of how we build trust, how
we let people build trust in us and the
companies that and products that we're
building. So that kind of leads me to
this next question which is should we be
doing that? Like are there some other
ways that you plan on having um on
building trust with your users? Um or
should we be doing this? Should we be
making like not just public commitments?
Companies make public commitments all
the time like, "Oh, we care about this.
We care about open source. We care about
uh doing the right thing for the user."
But are you actually willing to like
make that a binding statement? Are you
really really willing to like stick your
neck out and say, "Yeah, not only do I
say that this is what I believe to be
valuable, I'm willing to commit to an
ongoing audit from some neutral arbiter,
from some neutral AI powered system that
will come in and inspect every single
thing that happened in my company, every
Slack message, everything, and ensure
that actually we are making decisions
that abide by the mission statement of
the company." That would be something
that might have teeth. Maybe this isn't
the right way to do it, but I think
things like this are going to be
possible soon. They're not possible
today and they might be the flavor of
things that we need to start building
trust once we're in this world where
we've lost a lot of trust. Related
question around alignment. So I think a
lot about alignment and I think there's
this question of like what parts of
alignment do we have to solve? You know,
one reason we're working on alignment is
because of the control issue. We want to
make sure AI's, you know, stay under the
control of of humans. But I think
there's this like extremely
high pressure question for the next 12
months which is what parts of alignment
do we have to solve just to make these
models more economically viable, right?
Just to make sure that the agents that
all the startups are building uh as
their horizons get longer and longer uh
that we can actually trust those agents
are like not going off the rails, right?
And if you use cloud code today and it
works like five minutes at a time for
you, that's like one thing because
you're going to review a lot of what
Claude does. But if you're going to
trust an LLM to work for a day at a time
or a week at a time before you
intervene, you better have some degree
of certainty that it's not going
completely off the rails, right? So I
think this is like a huge open question.
I'm actually really positive and bullish
that there is this economic pressure in
a good way to make progress on alignment
uh because long horizon agents require
it. But I think it's an open question
how much and what aspects of alignment
have to be solved uh for this. Changing
topics a little bit. I think this is
like a question that we all like maybe
think has been answered which is is
there a set of data that can give you an
advantage and if you know if you go back
in time just a handful of years before
Frontier models before LLM the
assumption not just the assumption that
the fact was that custom data mattered
right like if you wanted to build a AI
startup or if you're an enterprise and
you were trying to deploy AI you had
this massive advantage if you had a
massive data set that was custom to your
need and you that was actually the only
way to get useful AIs more than a
handful of years ago uh was by training
models on your custom data set and then
very quickly what we saw was LLMs got
extremely powerful and extremely general
and actually it was just better to use
the general LLM than it was to train or
even fine-tune on your custom data right
what I I think is true is maybe is true
this is my open question is there might
be industries where that's not the case
uh where actually AI is maybe not great
uh an example might be like material
science can an LLM do really good
material science does a company that
specializes in material science that has
decades of of data can they do better.
Uh, and I think potentially yes, right?
Like LLMs are great at everything that
they've found on the internet, but are
they great at all this like tacet
knowledge that's locked up in companies
that actually hasn't bled out? Uh, I
think about like TSMC or ASML, right?
Like they make these multibillion dollar
bets and they do an incredibly good job
of keeping all that tacid knowledge they
build inhouse. It doesn't leak out.
Frontier LMS do not know how to build a
cutting edge semiconductor fab. Um,
that's that's an important fact
actually. Um, and I think if you're a
startup thinking about where there's a
defensible position, it's and I'll touch
on this again on in a few slides. I
think that's like an important question
to keep in mind. Okay, different
different tact here is you're probably
all aware of like capacity issues.
Everyone's trying to scale extremely
quickly. I think there's demand from
consumers, from your consumers
potentially, from your startups to scale
extremely fast, right? Uh, maybe we want
to scale like 100x over the next couple
years. That's faster than we can scale
GPU production. So, what are we going to
do? And I think there's a lot of uh open
questions around like does fine-tuning
actually matter? I think a lot of people
have abandoned fine-tuning and said
actually I'm just going to do better
context management or is there like a
role to play in like better routers
between which model small versus large
etc. Right? So I think this is like a
place where if you're interested in the
technical details you can have a
competitive advantage at least for the
next year or two uh because capacity is
really going to matter right you know
often from a product perspective I like
to say make it great then make it scale.
uh if you're already starting to work on
the make it scale part, this is really
important to you and like this can be
like some of the technical um moat that
you can build that that gets you ahead
of the competitors. Getting ahead of the
competitors though is like it's a rat
race. So at some point the models will
get better. Uh the capacity problems
will improve and then that advantage
might go away. So you need to have a
better answer to your question to this
question of like what's your mode? How
are you going to stay ahead? What makes
a durable advantage in a postagi world,
right? In two years or three years, if I
can just prompt, you know, Claude 7 or
GPT7 to just replicate your startup,
what's your advantage going to be,
right? And if I'm a mega corp and I have
more money than you and I can throw more
tokens at that, like are you really
going to have a durable advantage or you
just going to get clobbered by mega
corp? I think it's like a real question
uh that is extremely serious. Even
before AGI, I like to work on hard
problems. Like that's the moat for me.
Everyone has a different type of mode.
Some people are great at marketing,
whatever, right? I like solving hard
problems. Uh but I think about what does
it mean like to be a hard problem. Like
what's going to be hard in a post AGI
world and I think a lot of things
actually like TSMC, like ASML, those are
hard problems that eventually will get
easy uh with robotics etc. But robotics
are lagging behind. So I think there's
these hard problems that will exist even
in two years. And if you're willing to
go after hard problems, like if you have
the guts to do that, then you can have a
massive competitive advantage, right? So
like what are what is that set of hard
problems? You know, infrastructure and
energy and manufacturing and chips.
What else? Like those are the things
that are top of mind for me, but like
what are you what are your answers to
this question? Like what's still going
to be hard and worth doing? I think
about this question a lot too. Like is
there an intelligence ceiling to what
you need for various different tasks,
right? Like, you know, if you look at
image gen, for example, you know, just
recently with Veo3, uh, with videogen,
it's like I can I finally am getting
fooled by videos and like my Instagram
feed is starting to get full up of like
copy bars singing songs and [__] and and
I'm like, actually, this is great. I
love these videos. Uh, that wasn't true
three months ago, right? But can it get
even better or is there like for a
specific task, for a specific use case,
is there like some max where it's like,
yeah, that's it's good enough. We've
saturated, right? like that's the best
you can get at writing a poem. That's
the best you can get at writing a a git
diff uh for a PR. That's you know an
important question because if there is a
ceiling then the commoditization for
that task is going to hit much sooner
right you actually can't stay on the
edge longer by moving to the next model
figuring out how to prompt the next
model the task saturates right so the
commoditization pressure will be even
more extreme so I think it's important
to to think about this and again I think
it's going to depend on the task and the
vertical like some things maybe there
won't be a ceiling some things maybe
there will this is changing tack a
little bit here but you know is there
going to be a need for neutrality I you
know since the the dawn of chat bots two
two or three years ago or whatever like
people have been complaining about
refusals as like an example oh like I
asked the model to do this and it
refused. Uh if we end up relying on
these models that's a massive question
for society right that there's going to
be a handful of of corporations that get
to decide what is okay and not okay for
an AI to do for you. And if we start
relying on AI to do everything then
those companies become arbiters of what
gets built right that's extremely
important. So is is there is there going
to need to be a notion of neutrality
like we have today with some forms of
infrastructure, right? Electrical
infrastructure is is neutral. Like if GE
owned all the electrical grid and they
were like you can only use our
electrical grid if you promised to plug
in our toaster oven to it. Like no other
toaster ovens allowed to work on our
electrical grid. That would be a
problem. Um and it's it's good that that
didn't happen. Uh obviously we like
fought and lost this battle for the for
the web. Um what's going to happen with
AI? Do we need AI neutrality? Token
neutrality? I don't know what we call
it. I'll like wrap up my set of
questions here. I have an infinite
number of questions and you know I hope
that these just like stimulated you to
think a little bit as well about not
just these questions but your own
questions right I want to just like
touch on one one thing that's like
always inspired me about Silicon Valley
and it's this like cringe thing that has
always like you you only see it in
ironic sense but actually I think it's
really great which is like in Silicon
Valley we always used to say like what's
your startup doing and someone's like oh
I'm trying to change the world. Everyone
always wanted to like think big and do
the big thing and like at the end of the
day was a cat sharing app or whatever,
right? But like the desire to change the
world was there. I think startup
founders really meant it when they said
I want to change the world. I think the
thing that's concerning to me is you
know I I' I've been on the bleeding edge
of AI for like ever and I've you know
been worried about AI risk forever and
you know five years ago when I talked to
someone about AI they'd be like what the
[__] are you talking about? You think
these things are going to maybe kill us
or whatever like this is insane. Uh now
when I talk to people, you know, I sit
them down and I explain everything
that's happening. They already are aware
obviously, but I'm like, "Let me give
you some more details." And suddenly
they're like, "Oh, you can see the gears
start turning." And just regular folks
that I talk to uh in my life, they get
it. And they they're like viscerally
aware that the things that we're about
to go through are extremely important.
They're like humanity defining, society
defining. Like people get this, right?
It's not it's not a nuanced thing,
right? We're for the first time ever
bringing a second intelligence in the
world that matches humanity and will
eventually uh exceed uh human
intelligence, right? Like that's just
obviously extremely important, right? Uh
but like I get a lot of people to the
end of that chain of thought, you can
see the gears turning and then they they
ask a question and the question is
okay, how do we make money off of this?
And I get extremely disappointed in that
person. Uh and I totally understand why
they're asking this question, right?
Like you know there's a lot of fear in
the world. I think the fear of like all
of us losing our jobs or not being able
to build a startup that's going to be
competitive anymore or maybe the door to
build a startup closes forever in the
next few years. Who knows, right? Like
there's a lot of fear. Uh and I think AI
is scary, right? So like people start
thinking, well, I need to make money
right now. like if the economy is going
to be fundamentally different in the
next few years and I can't guarantee my
place in it, like I better like make my
mark right now, I better make my money
right now. And I think that's totally
understandable. So like actually I I'm
like, yeah, okay, like here, let's
brainstorm some ideas for how your next
company can make money or if you're, you
know, an investor or you're an employee,
whatever it is, let's brainstorm your
career. So I'm always happy to help
people with that. But I I also think
that in that same moment we this is the
last opportunity that we might have to
make a difference to change the world.
If you're building a product, you need
to use this moment, right? Like this
might be the last product you build.
This might be the last company you
build. If you're inside of a company,
the same applies. That might this might
be the last chance that you have over
the next couple years to make that
impact that could change the world even
in a small way. So if you have something
you care about, now is the time to do
it. I think about YC a lot and you know
the slogan is first part is YC slogan
build something people want right that's
what we all want to do and I think the
truth is what people want often is
something that's good for society but
you do need to think a little bit deeper
like I think people do want things they
can trust they want agents they can
trust they want bots they can trust they
want they want to know that when they
use a product it's not just going to
like delight them for the next 20
seconds that it's going to be good for
their mental health for the the next 20
years or the mental health of their
their children or their neighbors,
right? Like we want good things. We as
consumers and users, we want good
things, right? And when we say build
something people want, don't just think
about what people will consume. Like
what does society need? I think if you
build the right thing, a lot of people
will want it. Uh so I'll wrap up and
I'll say like I know there's a lot like
I get stressed out thinking about this
sometimes. Uh but I I really think as
founders or as people who are interested
in being founders like we have this
unique perspective like we think about
things we in a way that most other
people don't right like it's kind of the
whole job of being a founder is finding
an edge that's the whole thing and I
think over the next couple years things
are just going to move extremely fast
and the rules are going to change every
six months and you're going to have to
think again right and if there's anyone
that's positioned to stay at the
bleeding edge of that understand how
those changes are impacting some of
these questions and other questions that
we're talking about and then use the
insights from the answers to those
questions to drive positive change. If
there's anyone that can do that, it's
it's you all here. It's it's folks that
care about thinking about these these
things and care about building things
that people want. Uh so I hope that
that's what you all do. Uh I hope you
make money doing it, too. Uh while you
can. Uh and yeah, thanks for thanks for
listening. I think we got time for some
questions.
Thank you so much for the talk. I think
that was probably one of the more
grounded and down to earth talks I've
heard, especially the last point about
build something people want. I've always
thought it's build something the world
needs is perhaps a bit more important
for a time like this.
>> Yeah. And so I guess my question for you
coming up with all those questions, how
to approach AGI and like the insights
that come along with it, what are a
couple sources of information that like
inspire you to do this like whether
that's people, podcast, books, and
things like that? What what have been
most helpful for building your mental
model?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. I I uh
hesitate to say it, but I think the
honest answer is Twitter. I just
I'm really religious about curating my
Twitter, though. like, you know, if I
see someone who I think has good takes,
I I follow them. If they have dumb
takes, I unfollow them. Um, I think you
really need to be like the master of
your information diet. Not because like
I'm not worried about like being
influenced by bad opinions. It's more
that I've just got a limited limited
energy budget to digest new ideas,
right? So like don't just maximize for
um people you agree with. Maximize for
diver diversity, right? I'm like in
reinforcement learning context all the
time and there's this like notion of
like diversity in RL like exploration
versus exploitation. You want to make
sure you're doing a lot of exploration
in your energ in your like information
diet uh before you're doing the
exploitation which is like starting a
company for example.
>> Yeah. Thanks for the amazing talk guys.
It's probably my favorite talk today. Uh
something I think about quite a bit is
like in a world where AGI is coming say
in two or three years. Traditionally,
like the questions I ask myself is if I
have a couple startup ideas, should I
work on something that I'm really
passionate about and have experience
with expertise in? Should I work on some
place an idea where the market's
underserved or not as competitive in a
place where AGI is coming? Should the
most singular important question be what
idea is the most offensible against AGI?
>> Yeah, it's I mean it's a great set of
questions. I think even before all this
AGI stuff, a lot of those were good
questions. Like personally, my opinion
is that once you're like 6 months into
100 hour work weeks, I don't care how
passionate you are about an idea, you're
going to [__] hate it. And the only
thing that's going to keep you going is
like your desire to have the impact,
your commitment to the company, your
commitment to your founder, your
co-founders, and your team, right? Like,
so does it really matter to be extremely
passionate about the the domain that
you're going after? In my opinion, no.
But I think other people feel
differently. So like that's a personal
question. But I do think like being
impactoriented is really important. and
whether or not you're trying to have an
impact or not. I think defensibility
really is in my opinion one of the key
questions, right? I mean, that's kind of
half the talk, I guess, right? It's like
what's going to change? And, you know,
is the thing you're building just going
to be a rounding error over the next six
months? And, you know, I I honestly
think there's a lot of money to be made
in the ne in on a six to 18 month
horizon. If all you're optimizing for is
like, you know, hockey stick curve, grow
your ARR, flip the company, uh, and make
a quick buck, like, uh, you might you
might not need something long-term
defensible, right? But if you want to
build something that's going to like
stand the test of time and be part of
this transition through the singularity
and all the craziness of that, like I
would say think harder about the
defensibility. That's probably the most
important thing.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Yeah, good question.
>> Some of those questions are really
mind-bending. Been thinking about them a
lot as well. My question is sort of I
know you've tried to keep it open, but
what's like your s your personal opinion
on like the value of money? Do you think
as the cost of goods and services go
down, money will become like less
valuable because you know everything's
free or it will become more valuable
because we can do like way more stuff?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. Yeah, I
mean I think there's going to be policy
decisions that impact this a lot, right?
like do we need some form of UBI? um or
like you know maybe like slightly more
weird like universal basic compute like
if comput is the thing that powers
everything are we all entitled to some
form of compute these are like open
policy questions that will start
impacting that answer and I think we
should think seriously about them
because they will also change the nature
of our society and the sort of like um
checks and balances that we have over
our democratic institutions right like
if the government's giving out a UBI to
everyone that's an extreme amount of
power suddenly the government has over
the entirety of of of society right but
on the flip side if don't do something
like that. Uh I do think that we might
end up in a world where, you know,
there's there's two primary forces at
work today. It's capital and labor,
right? You know, I won't say the names
of people that I wouldn't want to work
with, but there are people in this world
that I wouldn't want to work with. And a
lot of people choose not to work for
those people, right? That's like a
massive uh hit to those people, right?
But once AGI arrives, you don't need
labor buyin anymore, right? Like you
don't need folks like me to approve of
the thing that you're building or of
your morals or whatever, right? like
capital begets capital in that world. Uh
and that can easily spiral out of
control, right? We already have a lot of
concentration of wealth. Um that could
really spiral out of control. So I think
we're like in a between a rock and a
hard space and I don't know what the
answer is and but I think the policy
decisions we make will have an huge
impact on the question that you asked.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Yeah, good question.
>> Hey Jordan, thanks so much for the time.
Yeah.
>> Um I guess the question I wanted to ask
is how do you think about alignment at
individual uh at the level of individual
users and I guess how important is that
for trust especially given that you know
preferences evolve over time and you
don't want to keep retraining models
especially also when you have a lot of
users. Yeah, I mean I think like
everything I have like a startup product
lens on everything, right? And it's like
startup mantra is that users don't know
what they want, right? And I think
that's true to a large extent, right?
But I think users still have values and
you want to discover those values and be
and honor them to some extent, right? So
I think like something that's top of
mind for me is you know you probably saw
like the sickopentic behavior from the
recent you know other other AI provider
and like I think if you put in front of
a user two responses and one of them is
more sick aentic one's like glazing I
guess is what the kids say nowadays
right uh then a lot of users will pick
the sickopentic response right like in
that moment they're like yeah of course
like of course the question I'm asking
is a great [__] question like thanks
for recognizing it right but I think if
you take a step back and you say, "Hey,
hold on a second. Here's two
principles." And you can choose the AI
that follows this principle or this
principle. And the first principle is
that we're never going to blow smoke up
your ass. Uh we're only going to tell
you if we like something or if an idea
is good, if it really is. Uh and the
other principle is actually we're just
going to like, you know, we're just
going to glaze you all day. Like that's
what we're going to do. If you ask the
user which principle do they want,
almost everyone's going to say the first
one, right? So, I I I think doing what
the user wants, you you get to a
different answer depending on what level
of the engagement you're asking them.
And I think that's really important
because people can abuse that to their
advantage by only asking the user the
question in certain ways, right? And I
think you need to really ask yourself
what what's the right way to ask the
user this question to get at the heart
of what is going to be best for them. I
don't know if that gets you. I kind of
went off on a diet tribe, but
>> that makes sense. Thanks so much.
>> Cool. Great question. Yeah.
>> Thank you for the talk. I really enjoyed
it. It seems to me like you value
critical thinking a lot. So I was
wondering what topics or what like what
opinions does like the general crowd and
like the tech field have that you
disagree with?
>> I I guess my my high level general
statement that I'll I'll tell you and
I'm happy to like talk talk more
offline. I think despite the fact that
we say our industry is this like
forward-looking industry uh and we're
like bold and we love taking risks and
putting everything on the line and
seeing what other people don't see. I
think the truth truth is that like
there's an extreme amount of group
think, right? Uh like the products that
we build, what gets funded by VCs, etc.,
right? Uh and I think even today like
you talk to a bunch of VCs and they're
like, "Oh yeah, like I'm ahead of the
curve. Like I'm investing in AI." I'm
like, "No, like you're two years behind
already, right? like tell me about what
you think needs to happen in two years,
right? Like are you asking these types
of questions of like what do I need to
be investing in today so that it's
resilient in two years? And I almost
never see a VC asking that that
question, right? But if I was a VC,
which I'm not, that's that's that would
be my investment thesis as a as a
founder, that's my investment thesis.
Like I don't know if that answers your
your question, but happy to go to
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah. Cool. Great question. Yeah.
>> You mentioned how trust is going to be a
bigger issue in the future. So, do you
think that blockchain might be a part of
the solution there? Thank you.
>> I uh I will just preface by saying that
I I I'm a huge blockchain doubter. I
don't know. But nonetheless, the price
keeps going up and I've you know, I
don't get any of that because I refuse
to buy it. Uh but I I do think, you
know, in this world where we need trust,
yeah, like those that's the right set of
ideas. We need ideas like that in
others, right? like you know something
that is I was touching on is like you
know AI powered audits can like two
different AI companies audit each other
like like how do how do we like get to
places where we can build trust um if we
do end up with some form of like
universal basic income or basic compute
basic tokens does that need to be
mediated by a blockchain like so that
it's not just at the behest of a central
government like yeah I think those are
like reasonable questions that maybe I
could get behind a blockchain on
good question yeah
>> thank you
>> so Google recently released um an ha
protocol to standardize how agents would
talk to agents and we talked a little
bit about um trust um on agents.
>> Yeah.
>> So I'm curious how like you would
envision a world of agents talking to
agents and how would that would affect
applications and would there be like a a
gentic permit scheme?
>> Yeah, I it's a great question. Um, I I
could talk about this all all day and
I'm almost out of time, so maybe I'll
just like I'll I'll give you one example
where it's like not obvious why this was
hard, but like think about like a
personal assistant agent that's just
scheduling meetings for you, right?
Seems trivial, right? Like, oh yeah, I'm
just going to look at this person's
calendar and then I'm going to like
suggest times, right? But actually, like
you've already lost the game of being a
good personal assistant because there's
a game theory component to how you
schedule meetings, right? And if you're
like too liberal with like showing that
there's free slots, you're like
communicating that this person's not
busy, right? Uh or you're communicating
that like it's really important to have
this meeting with the person that you're
scheduling. Uh whereas like if you say,
"Yeah, like I'm happy to schedule a
meeting between you and and Joe, but
it's like two weeks out, three weeks
out, right? Like there's a power dynamic
that you're you're doing, right?" And
like the truth is like all these game
theoretic things matter. A good assist,
a good human assistant knows all these
things, right? And like abides by them.
Um but it's all implicit, right? It's
not like, oh, there's this like concrete
piece of information that the agent has
access to and that's the important part
of the security. It's like way more
subtle and semantic. So, I think it's
just hard, but I think it's a great
question. Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Cool. And I think uh out of time
unfortunately, but feel free to like
shoot me a message online or I don't
know how to get like my Twitter is
Jordan Fisher, Jordan Ezra Fischer.
Shoot me a message. Always happy to
chat. And thanks for the great questions
and and hope you all enjoy the talk.